until the mid-1990s Peru was the number
one producer of coca in the world to
date several thousand former illegal
coca farmers cocaleros cultivate
anything from cacao and coffee to palm
trees for oil and palm part Hector or a
is one of them senior or a used to grow
coca in the infamous Andean region of
san martín yatra hopper una empresa
intone Celedon balan press i was working
for a company i would produce weekly
probably about 1,500 kilos of cocaine
base nursery I mean so Alice que hace
mas cerca de anza sometimes we would
fill up four or five flights headed for
Colombia and then Europe or open a
lucrative but dangerous lifestyle Hector
feared for the safety of his children
so he and his wife decided to leave
everything behind and move here to cook
out but in the Peruvian Amazon they came
across a palm oil project run by the
United Nations Drugs and Crime office
helping former cocaleros to start legal
businesses Elmo's implemented Akeno
cherie appear we implemented the first
project with palm empezando cuando
siento setenta funny starting with 270
poor families that have migrated from
different areas known to have been
working with coca coca yoke and visa aun
technical advisor for alternative
development with the office of project
services and office on drugs and crime
the aim was in pasado con we organize
them giving them the respective
materials technical assistance and made
sure everyone started with five factors
of palm because palm trees take three to
four years before the first harvest it
takes a lot of dedication and
perseverance on the part of the farmer
for egg toss it took 16 years today he
owns more than 22 hectares of palm trees
and as a shareholder in this palm oil
processing plant here in the shoe you
perame sailor to me being the owner of
this Factory is a great point forget it
encoder oh this is the future of my
whole family my children my
grandchildren and my whole generation
nuh shuya an hour's drive from Luke
alpha was once known for its high crime
rate now it's an area of opportunity and
development farmers are shareholders and
corporations like a lamp Sun and collect
dividends they can even ask for a loan
this one ticket this check is financial
support I'm asking for from Alonsa I
have a family problem and I need the
money running a legal business as an
able deck talk to open his first bank
account you're in Boca I'm mucho sorry
call Doris to all farmers involved with
Coca I say change to call la palma s uno
de los mejores my company with palm
trees you are always clean and proud on
a friend in and won't be afraid of
justice chasing in an opinion shared by
about fifteen thousand other former
cocaleros in Peru who've moved on to
alternative crops these are largely
determined by the soil and the altitude
of any given area long term palm oil
holds the highest promise here at the
moment Peru imports most of its
vegetable oils and the demand keeps
growing from industries such as food
cosmetics detergents and alternative
energy general manager of the ax lamps
of palm oil processing plant ok Vigo
Maldonado no panic we can also have a
biodiesel plant with a production of
12,500 tons per year
from palm oil processing plants like
this one in sham bo the crude oil is
taken to refineries like half a mile in
Lima where it goes through a complex
refining process Liz finally packed as
vegetable shortening general manager of
alpha male bed Engelhardt we received
crude palm oil from local bar from peru
and we transform it to final products
which are shortenings for different
industries and from bakeries palm oil is
also used as a nutritious additive for
animal feed so the market the palm oil
is clearly there but the ultimate goal
is to find alternatives that work and
can be sustained in the long term in
partnership with Peru's government the
United Nations Drugs and Crime office is
working to do just that the alternatives
that are being provided they're not
provided by chance that provide it after
careful analysis and this all entails
that the choices that are being provided
are viable choices their choices based
on what the market requires Flavio me
Leila the representative of the UN
Office on Drugs and Crime in Peru what
we're trying to do support government is
to build up the communities the question
here is not for them to pick up and go
elsewhere this is a project in which
everyone wins including the environment
because sustainable crops tie the
farmers to their land they also bring an
end to the notorious slash and burn
approach to planting cocoa used by
migratory cocoa farmers